docs: add AI tutor instructions to adev (#65054)
angular/angular: adev/src/content/ai/ai-tutor.md

# Angular AI Tutor

The Angular AI Tutor is designed to interactively guide you step-by-step through building a complete, modern Angular application from the ground up. You'll learn the latest patterns and best practices by building a real, tangible project: a **"Smart Recipe Box"** for creating and managing recipes.

Our goal is to foster critical thinking and help you retain what you learn. Instead of just giving you code, we'll explain concepts, show you examples, and then give you project-specific exercises to solve on your own.

## Get Started

> You can access the AI tutor via the [Angular MCP server](./mcp-server-setup.md).

Author: Fixed

1. Install the Angular MCP server with `ng mcp`
2. Create a new Angular project `ng new <project-name>`

> 3. Enter a prompt like `launch the Angular AI tutor`

Reviewer: Is there a screenshot to show what people can expect? Where would someone type "launch the Angular AI tutor"?

Author: Added several - great suggestion.

## How It Works: The Learning Cycle

> For each new topic, you'll follow a simple and effective learning loop that emphasizes critical thinking to help you better retain what you learn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each new topic, you'll follow a learning loop that emphasizes critical thinking to help you better retain what you learn.
```

> 1. **Learn the Concept:** We'll briefly explain a core Angular feature and show you a generic code example to illustrate it.

Author: Adjusted the language to clarify.

2. **Apply Your Knowledge:** You'll immediately get a hands-on exercise. The tutor presents these exercises at a high level with objectives and expected outcomes, encouraging you to think through the solution yourself.
3. **Get Feedback & Support:** When you're ready, let the tutor know. It will **automatically read your project files** to verify your solution is correct. If you get stuck, you are in complete control\! You can ask for a **"hint"** for more guidance, or get step-by-step instructions by typing **"detailed guide"** or **"step-by-step instructions."**

> Once you've succeeded, we'll move directly to the next topic. You can also ask the tutor for more information on a topic or ask any related Angular questions at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Apply Your Knowledge:** You'll receive a hands-on exercise presented with objectives and expected outcomes, encouraging you to think through the solution yourself.
3. **Get Feedback & Support:** Once you've proposed a solution, let the tutor know by prompting with a statement such as "I'm ready for the next step". It will **read your project files** to verify your solution is correct. If you get stuck, you can ask for a **"hint"** for more guidance, or get step-by-step instructions by typing **"detailed guide"** or **"step-by-step instructions."**

Once you've succeeded, the tutor will move directly to the next topic. You can also ask the tutor for more information on a topic or ask any related Angular questions at any time.
```

---

## **Features & Commands**

You are in control of your learning experience. Use these features at any time:

> ### **Leave and Come Back**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Save your project state at any time with Git**
```

Feel free to take a break\! Your progress is tied to your project's code. When you return for a new session, the tutor will automatically analyze your files to determine exactly where you left off, allowing you to seamlessly pick up right where you were.

> **Pro Tip:** We highly recommend using Git to save your progress. After completing a module, it's a great idea to commit your changes (e.g., `git commit -m "Complete Phase 1, Module 8"`). This acts as a personal checkpoint you can always return to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Pro Tip:** Use Git to save your progress. After completing a module, commit your changes (e.g., `git commit -m "Complete Phase 1, Module 8"`). This acts as a personal checkpoint you can always return to.
```

### **Adjust Your Experience Level**

You can set your experience level to **Beginner (1-3)**, **Intermediate (4-7)**, or **Experienced (8-10)**. You can change this setting at any time during your session, and the tutor will immediately adapt its teaching style to match.

**Example Prompts:**

- "Set my experience level to beginner."
- "Change my rating to 8."

### **See the Full Learning Plan**

> Want to see the big picture or check how far you've come? Just ask for the table of contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Want to check your progress? Ask for a status check or the table of contents with one of the following prompts:
```

### **Jump to Any Topic**

If you want to learn about a specific topic out of order (e.g., jump from the basics to forms), you can\! The tutor will provide the necessary code to update your project to the correct starting point for the selected module and attempt to automatically apply any required updates.

**Example Prompts:**

- "Take me to the forms lesson."
- "I want to learn about Route Guards now."
- "Jump to the section on Services."

---

## **Troubleshooting**

If the tutor doesn't respond correctly or you suspect something is wrong, here are a few things to try:

1. **Type "proceed":** This can often nudge the tutor to continue to the next step.
2. **Correct the Tutor:** If the tutor is mistaken about your progress (e.g., it says you're on Module 3 but you've completed Module 8), just tell it\! For example: _"I'm actually on Module 8."_ The tutor will re-evaluate your code and adjust.
3. **Verify Your UI:** If you want to confirm what your application's user interface should look like, just ask the tutor. For example: _"What should I see in my UI?"_

> 4. **Reload the Browser Window:** A simple refresh can solve many issues.

Author: Done.
